---
layout: post_userguide
id_menu: ug_cdn
title: API Gateway
categories: [UserGuide,UserGuide_Cdn]
---
## API Gateway

Figure

This is the **“API Gateway”** page under the **“Configuration”** page.

**API Gateway** is a service in distributed and service-oriented architectures (SOA) that allows managing and directing the APIs (Application Programming Interfaces) of a system. It acts as an intermediary gateway between clients and services in the system.

API Gateway provides a single access point for clients to communicate with different services in the system. Instead of directly calling individual APIs, clients only need to call the API Gateway to fulfill their requests. The API Gateway then handles these requests and routes them to the corresponding services.


### To setup an API Gateway to a domain, follow these simple steps:

1. Navigate to **CDN > Domains > Configuration > API Gateway**

2. Click the **“+Add”** button

3. Enter a descriptive name for the custom cache in the **Name** field

4. Under **When incoming requests match**, define the rule expression. Use the **Field** drop-down list to choose an HTTP property. For each request, the value of the property you choose for Field is compared to the value you specify for **Value** using the operator selected in **Operator**.

5. Under **Then**, in the **Origin Protocol** field, select HTTP or HTTPS; enter Host, Ports and URI Path

6. To save and deploy your rule, select **Deploy**. If you are not ready to deploy your rule, select **Save as Draft**.

**Note:**
- You may like to use the **“And”/”Or”** button when setup the configuration.
- The **Expression Preview** section provides the expression. You can also click on the **“Edit expression”** button if you would like to change it.
- You may like to set the priority of each item in the Custom Cache section.
- **The priority** of the Cache will be according to this ordering: **Custom Cache > Cache Configuration.**


### How it work?
When accessing a URL that fulfills a certain condition, the content displayed should match the original URI.

For example, if you access "https://exampledomain.com/**xyz?ver=1.1**," the URI will remain the same, and the content will be identical to "http://origindomain.com:**port/uripath/xyz?ver=1.1**"

form	https://exampledomain.com/css?ver=1,1

=> 		https://origindomain.com:443/product/css?ver=1.1


Please contact **Toffs Security Operation Center** for assistance if you encounter any issues.