---
layout: post_userguide
id_menu: ug_cdn
title: Analysis
categories: [UserGuide,UserGuide_Cdn]
---
## Analysis

### Realtime Report

#### Traffic Report

Figure 03

This page is the **“Traffic Report”** page under the **“Realtime Report” **page

This page allows you to monitor the **TOTAL TRAFFIC** for your selected domain using an interactive graph. You can view traffic data for different time intervals, such as an hour, a day, a week, a month, or customize your preferred timeframe.

You have the flexibility to choose the desired time period and explore the total traffic for your domain. The graph presents the following breakdown:

1. The blue portion represents the **TOTAL** traffic for the specific hour, day, week, month, or custom timeframe of the domain.

2. The yellow portion indicates the total **UNCACHED** traffic during the specified hour, day, week, month, or custom timeframe of the domain.

3. The red portion represents the total **CACHED** traffic for the given hour, day, week, month, or custom timeframe of the domain.


#### Cache Hit Radio

Figure 04

The **"Cache Hit Radio"** page is an integral part of the broader **"Realtime Report"** section, designed to provide you with real-time analytics regarding your domain's caching performance. Within this dedicated page, you can access crucial data pertaining to the percentage of Cache Hits your domain experiences within specific time intervals or on particular dates.

Understanding the significance of Cache Hits is essential for optimizing your website's performance. A Cache Hit occurs when a user's request matches content that is already stored in the cache, resulting in faster loading times and reduced server load. Therefore, a higher Cache Hit percentage indicates a more effective caching mechanism, leading to improved user experiences and website responsiveness.

**Maximum Cache Hit Percentage:**
This metric represents the highest percentage of Cache Hits recorded during the selected timeframe. Knowing the peak Cache Hit rate helps you identify the most successful periods of caching performance and allows you to replicate and maintain those favorable conditions.

**Average Cache Hit Percentage:**
The average Cache Hit percentage, on the other hand, provides a broader overview of caching efficiency over the specified time or date range. It factors in variations and fluctuations, giving you a more comprehensive understanding of how well your caching strategy performs on average.

By analyzing these two essential metrics, you can make informed decisions to optimize your caching configuration, leading to enhanced website speed, reduced server load, and ultimately, a better user experience for your visitors.


#### Request Report

Figure 05

This is the **“Request Report”** page under the **“Realtime Report”** page.

On this page, you have the ability to track the overall number of requests for your selected domain using an easily interpretable graph. The graph can display data for an hour, a day, a week, a month, or a custom time range.

You have the flexibility to choose both the time period and the specific domain you want to analyze. The graph is color-coded for better understanding:

1. The blue section represents the **TOTAL** number of requests for the chosen hour, day, week, month, or custom time range for the selected domain.
2. The yellow section corresponds to the total number of requests that were **UN-CACHED** during the chosen hour, day, week, month, or custom time range for the selected domain.
3. The red section indicates the total number of requests that were **CACHED** during the chosen hour, day, week, month, or custom time range for the selected domain.

This graphical representation allows for a quick and comprehensive view of your domain's request activities, enabling you to make informed decisions based on the provided data.


#### HTTP Status Code

Figure

The **"HTTP Status Code**" page within the **"Realtime Report"** offers valuable insights into the world of HTTP status codes, assisting in the identification and resolution of issues related to web page loading and resource accessibility.

**HTTP status codes** serve as standardized response codes used by web servers to communicate with web browsers and clients. When you access a webpage or resource on the internet, the server will respond with a specific status code, indicating the outcome of the request. Each status code carries a particular meaning, helping developers and users to comprehend the situation at hand.

By understanding the specific HTTP status codes received, developers and website administrators can pinpoint the issue and take appropriate actions to rectify it. On this page, you have the flexibility to choose the desired period of time and view status codes specific to a particular domain. This real-time report empowers you to analyze website performance, troubleshoot errors, and enhance overall user experience.

The period of time can be chosen along with **Status Codes** of the domain you wish to view.


#### URI Report

Figure 07

This is the **“URI Report”** page under the **“Realtime Report”** page.	

**URI** stands for **Uniform Resource Identifier**. Uniform Resource Identifiers (URIs), which play a pivotal role in facilitating resource access across computer networks and the World Wide Web. The primary purpose of URIs is to establish a standardized method for other computers to retrieve resources.

Here, users have the flexibility to select a specific time period and domain of interest for analysis. Once the preferences are set, the corresponding URI reports will be generated and displayed below, providing valuable insights into resource utilization and accessibility.

#### Requests by Country

Figure 08

This is the **“Remote Address”** page under the **“Realtime Report”** page.

The **"Remote Address"** page provides essential information about the IP Address/hostname of the remote computer to which the connection is currently established. It serves as a valuable tool to monitor and analyze the connections to different remote systems.

1. To tailor your analysis, you have the flexibility to select a specific period of time for which you want to view the data. Additionally, you can choose the domain you wish to focus on by adjusting the **"Value"** and **"Count"** parameters.

2. Upon selecting your preferred time frame and domain criteria, the data pertaining to the Remote Address will be displayed in the form of a comprehensive report. The information will be presented in the two columns designated as **"Value"** and **"Count"**, providing you with a clear overview of the connection statistics for the chosen domain. This enables you to make informed decisions and gain insights into the network's remote connections.


#### Download and Share Realtime Report

Our innovative feature enables you to effortlessly download or share the Realtime Report. Access valuable information such as Traffic Report, Cache Hit Ratio, Request Report, HTTP Status Code, URI Report, and Requests by Country with ease."

Figure 09

To download or share the **Realtime** report, complete the following steps:

**Step 1:** Choose the desired **Time** from the **Type** drop-down menu.

Figure 10

**Step 2:** Select the appropriate **Domain** from the **Domain** drop-down menu.

Figure 11

Step 3a: Click on the **Download** button.

Figure 12

Step 3b: To share the report, click the **Share Link PDF** button.

Figure 13

For public sharing, click the **Copy** symbol button to obtain the report's sharing link. Please note that this link will remain valid for 7 days.

Figure 14

Within the share link, you can also find the option to download the report as a PDF. By clicking the **"Download PDF"** button, the system will automatically initiate the PDF file download .

Figure 15

### WAF Report

#### HTTP Transactions

Figure 145

This is the **“HTTP Transactions”** page under the **“WAF Report”** page.

This page shows a graphical representation and a tabulated summary of HTTP Transactions categorized as **Blocked**, **Reported**, **Legitimate**, and **Total**, all sent to the chosen domain. You can view the data based on different time intervals such as Hourly, Daily, Weekly, Monthly, or a Custom range — these options are conveniently accessible in the drop-down menu. 

The graph visually presents the count of each request type, while the table provides specific figures and percentages for each request category.


#### OWASP Top 10

Figure 146

This is the **“OWASP Top 10”** page under the **“WAF Report”** page.

This page displays a graph and table of attacks based on **OWASP Top 10** by year (2013 - 2017 - 2021), sent to the selected domain by Hour/Day/Week/Month/Custom - options are available in the drop-down column. The graph shows the percentage of attack types. The table details the number and the percentage of attack types.

*This version is using OWASP 2013, the next version is considering using OWASP 2021.*

[From version 5.3] OWASP Top 10 has been using OWASP 2021.


#### OWASP Rule

Figure 147

This is the **“OWASP Rule”** page under the **“WAF Report”** page.

This page displays a graph showing the percentage of attack types according to the **OWASP Rule**, sent to a selected domain by Hour/Day/Week/Month/Custom.

At the **OWASP Rule list**, users can click to a name in the list to hide or click again to show any of the types of OWASP Rules.


#### Security Events

Figure 148

This is the **“Security Events”** page under the **“WAF Report”** page.

This page displays a graph and table of attacks based on **Security Events** sent to the selected domain by Hour/Day/Week/Month/Custom - options are available in the drop-down column. The graph shows the number of attacks by security level. The table shows the average and peak number of attacks for each security level. There are 7 levels of security:

- 0 - EMERGENCY: is generated from correlation of anomaly scoring data where there is an inbound attack and an outbound leakage.

- 1 - ALERT: is generated from correlation where there is an inbound attack and an outbound application level error.

- 2 - CRITICAL: Anomaly Score of 5. Is the highest severity level possible without correlation. It is normally generated by the web attack rules (40 level files).

- 3 - ERROR: Anomaly Score of 4. Is generated mostly from outbound leakage rules (50 level files).

- 4 - WARNING: Anomaly Score of 3. Is generated by malicious client rules (35 level files).

- 5 - NOTICE: Anomaly Score of 2. Is generated by the Protocol policy and anomaly files.

- 6 - INFO

- 7 - DEBUG

*Severity values in ModSecurity follow the numeric scale of syslog (where 0 is the most severe). The data above is used according to the OWASP ModSecurity Core Rule Set (CRS).*


#### Attack Distribution

Figure 149

This is the **“Attack Distribution”** page under the **“WAF Report”** page.

This page presents a graph and table of attacks based on **Distribution** origin sent to the selected domain by Hour/Day/Week/Month/Custom - options are available in the drop-down column. The graph shows the percentage of attacks **Blocked** and **Reported**. The table details the number of attacks **Blocked** and **Reported** by **Violation Type**.


#### Attack Sources

Figure 150

This is the **“Attack Sources**” page under the **“WAF Report”** page.

This page displays a graph and a table of attacks based on **Sources** origin sent to the selected domain by Hour/Day/Week/Month/Custom - options are available in the drop-down column. The graph shows the number of attacks coming from each IP. The table details the number of each attack type coming from that IP.


#### Attack By Country

Figure 151

This is the **“Attack By Country”** page under the **“WAF Report”** page.

This page shows a detailed breakdown of the number of attacks based on **Country** origin sent to the selected domain by Hour/Day/Week/Month/Custom - options are available in the drop-down column.


#### Attack Log

Figure 152

This is the **“Attack Log**” page under the **“WAF Report”** page.

This page shows a detailed breakdown of each attack to the selected domain by Hour/Day/Week/Month/Custom - options are available in the drop-down column. The information includes: Attacker IP, Port, Rule ID, Rule Name, Agent, Severity, Method, URL, Time and Detail.

Figure 153

To view details, continue to click on the "Detail" icon to display more about Message, File Name, Data, Line Number, and Severity.


#### Attacked Hosts

Figure 154

This is the **“Attacked Hosts”** page under the **“WAF Report”** page.
This page shows a detailed breakdown of the number and the types of attacks to user's domains that were detected and reported, the options are available in the drop-down column - Hour/Day/Week/Month/Custom.


#### Download and Share WAF Report

This function allows the user to download or share Realtime Report including Traffic Report, Cache Hit Ratio, Request Report, HTTP Status Code, URI Report and Requests by Country.

Figure 155


To download or share the **Realtime Report**, complete the following steps:

**Step 1:** Select the **Time** from the **Type** drop-down menu.

Figure 156

**Step 2:** Select the **Domain** from the Domain drop-down menu.

Figure 157

**Step 3a:** Click the **Download** button.

Figure 158

Step 3b: To share the report, click the **Share Link PDF** button.

Figure 159

Click **Copy** symbol button to get the report public sharing link. This URL is only valid for 7 days.

Figure 160

In the share link, you may also click the **“Download PDF”** button. The system will automatically download the PDF file.

Figure 161

### Download Report

#### Access Log

Figure 114

This is the **“Access Log”** page under the **“Download Report”** page.

This page allows the user to view and download previous records of traffic and WAF reports on specific dates and timings by keying in the desired date and time to be reviewed. 

1. Select the Domain that you wish to view.

2. Select the Date and Period of Time of which you want to view the information from.

3. Choose either **“Traffic Report”**, **“WAF Report”** or both to be able to view the information.

4. A **“Download”** button will appear depending on the duration requested and the respective size of the file will determine the extraction time. 

**To download the Access Log report, complete the following steps:**

**Step 1:** Select **Domain** in the domain drop-down menu

Figure 115

**Step 2:** Select **Time**

Figure 120

**Step 3:** Stick Traffic Report or not

Figure 121

**Step 4:** Click the **“Download**” symbol button

Figure 122

**Step 5:** Click the **“Download”** button

Figure 123

The system will automatically download the Access Log Report into the computer.


#### Schedule Report

This is the **“Schedule Report”** under the **“Download Report”** page.

This page allows you to schedule a report either daily, weekly or monthly and it will be recorded in the table to view. The report can also be scheduled to be sent to the email address that you would like to receive.

The **“+Add”** function allows you to set a schedule that will download the data report and send it to the email provided hourly/daily/weekly/monthly.

- Daily Report: Send at 0h UTC
- Weekly Report: Send on Monday, 0h UTC
- Monthly Report: Send on the first day of the month, 0h UTC


##### Add Schedule Report

To schedule the report, complete the following steps:

**Step 1:** In Schedule Report, click **“+Add”** button

Figure 125

**Step 2:** Select the **Domain**

Figure 126

**Step 3:** Enter **Email** (can enter multiple emails to receive the reports)

**Step 4:** Select **Report Length**: Daily, Weekly or Monthly

**Step 5:** Select **Type** report to receive

**Step 6:** Click **“Save”** to finish


##### Edit Schedule Report

To edit the schedule, complete the following steps:

**Step 1:** In Schedule Report, click the **“Edit”** symbol button next to each Schedule Report line that needs to be edited.

Figure 133

The system will redirect to the Edit Schedule page to edit or update the details.

**Step 2:** Click **“Save”** to finish.

Figure 134

One adding new Schedule Report successfully, the system will redirect back to the Schedule Report page and show data as added.

Figure 135


##### Delete Schedule Report

To delete a Schedule Report, complete the following steps:

**Step 1:** In the Schedule Report page, click the **“Delete”** symbol button.

Figure 136

**Step 2:** The system will display a dialogue box to confirm before deleting. Click **"Yes"** if you continue to want to delete.

Figure 137

The Schedule Report will be deleted from the system.


#### Raw Log

This the **“Raw Log”** under the **“Download Report”** page.

This page allows the user to view and download previous records of traffic and WAF reports on specific dates and timings by just keying in the date and time that you wish to look at and the graph will appear. This is a more specific version of the **“Access Log”** which shows you much more pinpoint.

To download the Access Log report, complete the following steps:

**Step 1:** Select **Domain** in the domain drop-down menu

Figure 139

**Step 2:** Select **Time**

Figure 140

**Step 3:** Upon clicking the **“Filter”** button, a loading bar will appear with the following text **“Please wait for the filter data log”**.

Figure 141

**Step 4:** A **“Download”** button will appear depending on the duration requested and the respective size of the file will determine the extraction time. Click the **“Download”** button

Figure 142

Figure 143

Upon clicking the **“Download”** button, an automated action to download the file - file type CSV will proceed. 

Figure 144

A sample downloaded **“Raw Log”** file will look like this

Please contact **Toffs Security Operation Center** for assistance if you encounter any issues.

