---
layout: post_userguide
id_menu: ug_cdn
title: Setting
categories: [UserGuide,UserGuide_Cdn]
---
## Setting

### Global WAF Rule

Figure 113

This is the **“Global WAF Rule”** page used for **Toffs Technologies Support Team**. 

This page allows Toffs Technologies Support Team to create **Global rules** that are evaluated for each request that passes through the **WAF**. These rules hold a higher priority than the rest of the rules in the managed rule sets. The **Global WAF Rules** contain a rule name, rule priority, and an array of matching conditions.

The **“Search”** function makes searching for the Global WAF rules the supporter has implemented easier.

The **“+Add”** function allows the supporter to add Global WAF rules to protect all customers’ domains.

**Global WAF Rule Flow:**

When the supporter adds a new rule:

- In Global, the rule will be added to the Global WAF Rule page with its default status being OFF. 
- In Local, the rule will also be added to the Custom WAF Rules page with its default status being OFF and Global Type.

When the supporter removes a rule:

- In Global, the rule will be removed from the Global WAF Rule page.
- In Local, the rule will also be removed from the Custom WAF Rules page.

**To use the Global WAF Rule:**

- The supporter can enable/disable this rule on both the Global WAF Rule page and the Custom WAF Rules page of each customer’s domain.
- The customer can only enable/disable this rule on the Custom WAF Rules page of each customer’s domain.

**Note:** The system will effect the WAF rules based on the priority level: Global WAF Rule > Custom WAF Rule > Basic WAF Rule.


### Binding IP

Figure 165

This page is mainly used for **Toffs Technologies Support Team**. It allows the enabling of editing and changing of any customer’s websites’ IP address. 


### Server

Figure 166

This is **“Server”** page used for **Toffs Technologies Support Team**. It helps to manage the Servers and Nginx’s status of Server.



### Zone 

Developing...

Please contact **Toffs Security Operation Center** for assistance if you encounter any issues.