---
layout: post
title: Domain Name
categories: [Support,Dns]
---

## What constitutes a domain name?

A domain name is a sequence of characters that corresponds to an alphanumeric IP address, enabling the retrieval of a website through client software. In simpler terms, a domain name is the text entered by a user into a web browser to access a specific website. For example, the domain name for Google is 'google.com'.

The precise address of a website is a intricate numerical IP address (e.g. 192.0.2.2), but with the assistance of DNS, users can input user-friendly domain names and be directed to their desired websites. This operation is referred to as a DNS lookup.

## Who is responsible for overseeing domain names?

Domain names are overseen by domain registries, which authorize registrars to handle the process of reserving domain names. Individuals interested in establishing a website can secure a domain name through a registrar, with the tally of registered domain names surpassing 300 million at present.

## What sets apart a domain name from a URL? 

A Uniform Resource Locator (URL), often referred to as a web address, encompasses not just the domain name of a website, but also additional details like the protocol and path. For instance, in the URL 'https://toffstech.net/learning/', the domain name is 'toffstech.com', the protocol is 'https', and the path '/learning/' points to a particular page on the site.

What constitutes the components of a domain name?
Domain names are commonly divided into two or three segments, each separated by a period. When read from right to left, the elements within domain names progress from the broadest to the most precise. The portion located to the right of the final dot in a domain name is referred to as the top-level domain (TLD). This category encompasses both 'generic' TLDs such as '.com', '.net', and '.org', as well as country-specific TLDs like '.uk' and '.jp'.

Positioned to the left of the TLD is the second-level domain (2LD), and if anything exists to the left of the 2LD, it is identified as the third-level domain (3LD). Let's examine a couple of instances:

In the case of Google's domain name in the United States, 'google.com':

- '.com' serves as the TLD (most general)
- 'google' functions as the 2LD (most specific)

However, when considering Google UK's domain name, 'google.co.uk':

- '.com' represents the TLD (most general)
- '.co'* stands as the 2LD
- 'google' is recognized as the 3LD (most specific)

**In this scenario, the 2LD signifies the type of entity that has registered the domain (in the UK, '.co' is used for websites registered by companies).*

## Securing Your Domain Name: Best Practices

After successfully registering a domain name with a chosen registrar, the responsibility of maintaining its security rests with that registrar. They are tasked with sending timely notifications to the registrant as the domain's expiration approaches, offering the opportunity for renewal. This process guarantees that the registrant retains ownership of their domain name without any disruptions. Unfortunately, there are instances where registrars exploit expired domain names by promptly acquiring them and later reselling them to the original owners at significantly inflated prices. To safeguard yourself from such predatory tactics, it is of utmost importance to select a registrar with a reputation for honesty and reliability.


